PHP (Level 3):
What is the difference between public static function and static function in PHP?

Answer: public static function is a static method that can be accessed from anywhere (outside the class), while static function is also a static method but with limited access based on visibility (e.g., private, protected).

What is Dependency Injection in PHP and how is it used?

Answer: Dependency Injection (DI) is a design pattern where an object's dependencies (other objects it relies on) are injected into it rather than created within the object. This improves testability and decouples the code.

What are PSR standards in PHP?

Answer: PHP-FIG (PHP Framework Interoperability Group) defines PSR standards, such as PSR-1 (Basic Coding Standard), PSR-2 (Coding Style Guide), and PSR-4 (Autoloading Standard), to ensure consistent coding practices across PHP libraries and frameworks.

How can you prevent class inheritance in PHP?

Answer: You can prevent inheritance by declaring the class as final. A final class cannot be extended.

Explain the concept of autoloading in PHP.

Answer: Autoloading is a mechanism in PHP where classes are automatically loaded when they are needed without explicitly requiring the file. This is typically done using spl_autoload_register() or PSR-4 autoloading.

What is the use of __call() magic method in PHP?

Answer: __call() is a magic method in PHP that is invoked when an inaccessible or undefined method is called on an object. It helps handle method calls dynamically.

What is the difference between isset() and empty() in PHP?

Answer: isset() checks if a variable is set and is not null, while empty() checks if a variable is empty (i.e., null, false, 0, "", etc.).

What is the difference between include() and require() when handling file inclusion?

Answer: Both include() and require() include files, but require() produces a fatal error and stops execution if the file is not found, whereas include() only issues a warning.

How can you improve performance in a PHP application?

Answer: You can improve performance by caching results, using opcode caching (e.g., with OPcache), optimizing database queries, using efficient data structures, and leveraging CDNs.

What is the difference between PDO and mysqli in PHP?

Answer: Both are database access libraries, but PDO supports multiple database types (e.g., MySQL, PostgreSQL), while mysqli is specific to MySQL databases. PDO also supports prepared statements more flexibly.

JavaScript (Level 3):
What is the purpose of the new keyword in JavaScript?

Answer: The new keyword is used to create a new instance of an object from a constructor function or a class, initializing its properties and methods.

What is a generator function in JavaScript, and how does it work?

Answer: A generator function allows you to pause the function execution and resume it later using the yield keyword. It returns an iterator object that can be used to traverse the values.

What are JavaScript Promises, and how do they work?

Answer: A Promise is an object that represents the eventual completion or failure of an asynchronous operation. Promises have three states: pending, fulfilled, and rejected.

Explain the event loop in JavaScript.

Answer: The event loop is the mechanism that allows JavaScript to handle asynchronous operations. It runs in a single thread and processes tasks from the call stack and the event queue.

What is the difference between Object.create() and class-based inheritance in JavaScript?

Answer: Object.create() is used to create a new object with a specific prototype, while class-based inheritance uses the class syntax to create classes and inherit from other classes.

What are map, filter, and reduce functions in JavaScript?

Answer:

map() creates a new array with the results of applying a function to each element.

filter() creates a new array with elements that pass the test function.

reduce() applies a function to reduce an array to a single value.

What is the difference between synchronous and asynchronous code in JavaScript?

Answer: Synchronous code executes in sequence, blocking further execution until it's complete. Asynchronous code allows other operations to run while waiting for a task to complete.

What is the this keyword in JavaScript?

Answer: The this keyword refers to the context in which a function is called, typically the object that owns the method. Its value can vary depending on how the function is invoked.

What is the difference between let, const, and var in JavaScript?

Answer:

var has function scope and can be redeclared.

let has block scope and can be reassigned but not redeclared.

const has block scope and cannot be reassigned.

How does hoisting work in JavaScript?

Answer: Hoisting is a behavior in which variable and function declarations are moved to the top of their containing scope during compilation. Only the declaration is hoisted, not the initialization.

MySQL (Level 3):
What is the difference between UNION and UNION ALL in MySQL?

Answer: UNION combines results from multiple SELECT queries and removes duplicates, while UNION ALL includes all results, even duplicates.

How can you optimize database queries for performance in MySQL?

Answer: Use indexes, optimize joins, avoid using SELECT *, limit rows returned with LIMIT, use proper data types, and analyze queries with EXPLAIN.

What are the ACID properties in database management systems?

Answer: ACID stands for Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and Durability. These properties ensure reliable transaction processing in a database.

What is a foreign key in MySQL?

Answer: A foreign key is a column that establishes a relationship between two tables by referring to the primary key of another table.

What is the difference between CHAR and VARCHAR in MySQL?

Answer: CHAR is a fixed-length string, while VARCHAR is a variable-length string. CHAR is faster for fixed-length data, while VARCHAR saves space for variable-length data.

What are the differences between JOIN, LEFT JOIN, and RIGHT JOIN in MySQL?

Answer:

JOIN (INNER JOIN) returns matching records from both tables.

LEFT JOIN returns all records from the left table and matched records from the right.

RIGHT JOIN returns all records from the right table and matched records from the left.

What is the purpose of the GROUP BY clause in MySQL?

Answer: The GROUP BY clause groups rows that have the same values into summary rows, often used with aggregate functions like COUNT(), SUM(), etc.

How can you create an index in MySQL?

Answer: You can create an index using the CREATE INDEX statement:

sql
Copy
Edit
CREATE INDEX idx_name ON table_name(column_name);
What are stored procedures in MySQL, and why are they useful?

Answer: Stored procedures are precompiled SQL statements that can be executed multiple times. They improve performance, simplify complex tasks, and increase security by limiting direct access to the database.

What is normalization, and what are the normal forms in MySQL?

Answer: Normalization is the process of organizing a database to reduce redundancy. The common normal forms are:

1NF (First Normal Form): No repeating groups.

2NF (Second Normal Form): Remove partial dependencies.

3NF (Third Normal Form): Remove transitive dependencies.

jQuery (Level 3):
What is the difference between .on() and .bind() in jQuery?

Answer: .on() is more flexible and supports event delegation, while .bind() is an older method that directly attaches event handlers to elements.

How do you prevent the default action of an event in jQuery?

Answer: You can prevent the default action using the event.preventDefault() method:

javascript
Copy
Edit
$('#element').click(function(event) {
  event.preventDefault();
});
What is chaining in jQuery, and how does it work?

Answer: Chaining in jQuery allows you to apply multiple methods to the same element in a single statement, improving readability and efficiency.

How can you toggle the visibility of an element in jQuery?

Answer: You can toggle visibility using .toggle() or .fadeToggle():

javascript
Copy
Edit
$('#element').toggle();
What is the .each() method in jQuery, and how is it used?

Answer: .each() is used to iterate over a collection of elements, applying a function to each element.

javascript
Copy
Edit
$('li').each(function(index) {
  console.log($(this).text());
});
How can you get the value of an input field in jQuery?

Answer: Use .val() to get or set the value of input fields:

javascript
Copy
Edit
var inputVal = $('#inputField').val();
What is the difference between .append() and .prepend() in jQuery?

Answer: .append() adds content to the end of an element, while .prepend() adds content to the beginning.

How do you remove an element from the DOM using jQuery?

Answer: Use .remove() to completely remove an element:

javascript
Copy
Edit
$('#element').remove();
What is event delegation in jQuery, and why is it used?

Answer: Event delegation involves using a single event listener on a parent element to handle events for dynamically added child elements. It improves performance and simplifies code.

How do you get the HTML content of an element in jQuery?

Answer: Use .html() to get the HTML content of an element:

javascript
Copy
Edit
var htmlContent = $('#element').html();
OOP (Level 3):
What is the difference between composition and inheritance in OOP?

Answer: Inheritance represents an "is-a" relationship, while composition represents a "has-a" relationship, where objects are composed of other objects.

What is the Singleton Pattern in OOP?

Answer: The Singleton Pattern ensures that a class has only one instance and provides a global access point to that instance.

What are the SOLID principles in OOP?

Answer: The SOLID principles are a set of five design principles that promote more maintainable, flexible, and scalable object-oriented systems. These principles are:

S: Single Responsibility Principle

O: Open/Closed Principle

L: Liskov Substitution Principle

I: Interface Segregation Principle

D: Dependency Inversion Principle

What is the Factory Method Pattern?

Answer: The Factory Method Pattern defines an interface for creating objects, but allows subclasses to alter the type of objects that will be created.

What is the difference between a class and an interface in OOP?

Answer: A class contains both data and methods for implementing functionality, whereas an interface only defines method signatures that a class must implement.

What is method chaining in OOP?

Answer: Method chaining allows you to call multiple methods on the same object in a single line by returning the object itself from each method.

What is the difference between abstract and final classes in OOP?

Answer: An abstract class cannot be instantiated directly and can be extended, while a final class cannot be extended.

What is polymorphism in OOP?

Answer: Polymorphism allows objects of different classes to be treated as objects of a common superclass, typically by overriding methods.

What is the purpose of the __construct() method in PHP OOP?

Answer: __construct() is a special method in a class that is automatically called when an object is instantiated. It is typically used for initializing object properties.

What is the difference between is_a() and instanceof in PHP?

Answer: is_a() is a function that checks if an object is an instance of a class or a subclass, while instanceof is a language construct that performs the same check.
